in this and the next few videos I want
to start to talk about classification
problems where the variable Y that you
want to predict is discrete values we'll
develop an algorithm called logistic
regression which is a one of the most
popular and most widely used learning
algorithms today here are some examples
of classification problems earlier we
talked about email spam classification
as an example of a classification
problem another example would be
classifying online transactions so if
you have a website that sell stuff and
if you want to know if a particular
transaction is fraudulent or not whether
someone has you know you is using a
stolen credit card or has stolen the
user's password that's another
classification problem and earlier we
also talked about the example of
classifying tumors as cancerous
malignant or as benign tumors in all of
these problems the variable that we're
trying to predict is a variable Y that
we can think of as taking on two values
either 0 or 1 either spam or non-spam
fraudulent or not fraudulent malignant
or benign another name for the class
that we denote with 0 is the negative
class and another name for the class
that we denote with 1 is the positive
class so 0 may denote the benign tumor
and 1 positive class may denote a
malignant tumor the assignment of the
two classes you know spam not spam and
so on the assignment of the two classes
to positive and negative to 0 and 1 is
somewhat arbitrary and it doesn't really
matter but often there is this intuition
that the negative Clause is conveying
the absence of something like the
absence of a malignant tumor whereas a 1
the positive class is conveying the
presence of something that we may be
looking for
but the declination of which is negative
and which is positive is somewhat
arbitrary and it doesn't matter that
much for now we're going to start with
classification problems with just two
classes 0 & 1
later on we'll talk about multi class
problems as well where the variable Y
may take on say 4 values 0 1
two and three this is called a
multi-class classification problem but
for the next view videos let's start
with the two class or the binary
classification problem and we'll worry
about the multi class setting later so
how do we develop a classification
algorithm here's an example of a
training set for a classification task
for classifying a tumor as malignant or
benign and notice that malignancy takes
on only two values 0 or no 1 or 1 or yes
so one thing we could do given this
training set is to apply the algorithm
that we already know linear regression
to this data set and just try to fit a
straight line to the data so if you take
this training set and for the straight
line to it maybe you get a hypothesis
that looks like that right so that's my
hypothesis H of x equals theta transpose
X if you want to make predictions one
thing you could try doing is then
threshold the classifier output at 0.5
that is at the vertical axis value 0.5
and if the hypothesis outputs a value
that is greater than equal to 0.5 you
predict y equals 1 this is less than 0.5
you predict y equals 0 let's see what
happens we do that so let's take 0.5 and
so you know that's where the threshold
is and thus using linear regression this
way everything to the right of this
point we would end up predicting as the
positive class because the output values
is greater than 0.5 on the vertical axis
and everything to the left of that point
we will end up predicting as a negative
value in this particular example it
looks like linear regression is actually
doing something reasonable even though
this is a classification task we're
interested in but now let's try changing
the problem a bit let me extend out the
horizontal axis a little bit and let's
think we got one more training example
way out there on the right notice that
that additional training example this
one out here it doesn't actually change
anything right this is you know looking
at the training set is pretty clear what
a good hypothesis
instead well everything to the right of
somewhere around here to the right of
this we should predict this positive and
everything to the left
we should probably predict this negative
because from this training set it looks
like all the tumors larger than you know
a certain value around here on malignant
and all the tumors smaller than that are
not malignant at least for this training
set but once we've added that extra
example out here if you now run linear
regression you instead get a straight
line fit to the data that might maybe
look like this and if you now threshold
this hypothesis at 0.5 you end up with a
threshold that's around here so that
everything to the right of this point
you predict as positive and everything
to the left at that point you predict as
negative and this seems a pretty bad
thing for linear regression to have done
right because you know these are
positive examples these are negative
examples it's pretty clear which really
should be separating the two classes
somewhere around there but somehow by
adding one example way out here to the
right this example really isn't giving
us any new information I mean it should
be no surprise to the learning algorithm
that the example way out here turns out
to be malignant
but somehow add in that example out
there cause linear regression to change
is straight line fit to the data from
this magenta from this magenta line out
here to this blue line over here and
caused it to give us a worse hypothesis
so applying linear regression to a
classification problem usually isn't
often isn't a great idea in the first
instance in the first example before I
added this extra extra training example
previously linear regression was just
getting lucky and it got us a hypothesis
that you know worked well for that
particular example but usually applying
linear regression to a data set you know
you might get lucky but often it isn't a
good idea so I wouldn't use linear
regression for classification problems
here's one other funny thing about what
would happen if we were to use linear
regression for
problem for classification we know that
Y is either 0 or 1 but if you are using
linear regression
while the hypothesis can output values
that are much larger than 1 or less than
0 even if all of your training examples
have labels y equals 0 1 and it seems
kind of strange that even though we know
that the labels should be 0 1 it seems
kind of strange if the algorithm can
output values much larger than 1 or much
smaller than 0
so what we'll do in the next few videos
is develop an algorithm called logistic
regression which has the property that
the output the predictions of logistic
regression are always between zero and
one and doesn't become bigger than one
or become less than zero and by the way
logistic regression is and we will use
it as a classification algorithm is some
may be sometimes confusing that the term
regression appears in this name even
though logistic regression is actually a
classification algorithm but that's just
the name it was given for historical
reasons so don't be confused by that
logistic regression is actually a
classification algorithm that we apply
to settings where the label Y is the
speed value when is either 0 1 so
hopefully you now know why if you have a
classification problem using linear
regression isn't a good idea in the next
video we'll start working out the
details of the logistic regression
algorithm